This class will help you
better understand the reality
or functioning of any company.
It will help you become a better analyst.
The cash flow, in the state of treasury,
as we will see in the next
class, is broken down into three
flows.
The flow of transactions, the
flow of investment and the flow
of financing.
Let us see what the perspective is.
As we have mentioned, all
activity within a company can
be categorized into three
large groups that are
operations, investment and financing.
And it will help a lot that
from now on you are able to think
about a company like this.
Let's say you are able to
separate causes and effects and
activities within each block.
We are studying it within the course
of accounting and within the state
of treasury in particular because
the state of treasury informs us
of three types of cash flows that
coincide with these three activities.
Operations, Investment and Finance.
We start with the operations.
What do we mean by operations?
We are talking about the daily activity
of the company.
We refer to the purchase of
goods, to the payment of employees,
we refer to the sale of services
or the sale of products,
to the charges, etc.
The first step in analyzing a
company is its operations.
We need to make sure that the
operations are generating cash.
In many cases, when companies
are seen with problems in their
operations, in their commercial
activity, imagine that prices have
fallen or that production costs
have been shot, well, because
they are forced to resort to other
mechanisms related to the other
two perspectives or activities
such as investment or
financing.
Think, for example, that they may
resort to selling fixed assets
to obtain the liquidity needed to
continue operating or request additional
debt, thus compromising their
risk situation.
The second is the investment
activity.
In addition to the purely business
operations, or the vast majority
need to invest in
fixed assets or non-current
assets.
So imagine, if you are a factory,
you need to make investments
in machinery or if you
are a cook.
There are many people who
may confuse or include this investment
activity within the transactions,
but they are really different
activities that should
be analyzed differently.
In fact, there may be companies
whose operations are running
well, but that have made decisions
to make excessive investments
in fixed assets and that
end up slashing the company's
performance.
Finally, we have the perspective
of financing.
Activities related to how the company
has obtained the funds necessary
for its activity, either
through loans or debt from outside
funds in which we would include
the entry of loans, the bite
of loans, etc., or the
relationship with the
partners in which we will
include the entry or contributions
of capital both initial
and subsequent and
the payment of dividends.
We'll look at several cases, several
circumstances of different
companies that will help us understand
how to do this analysis from
a perspective, from a triple
perspective.
In this case, we have a restaurant.
The operations are working well and
the investment decisions have been
appropriate.
The problem is that at the time of
the establishment of the restaurant
it was decided to resort to an excessive
debt percentage.
The partners did not have enough capital
and were either leveraged or
indebted too much.
Therefore, they are compromising monthly
cash flow because every month you
have to amortise part of that debt
and they are generating liquidity
problems.
Let us look at another case.
In this case, we have a profitable
company that has been created
recently and has the possibility
of growing very ambitiously
in international
markets or by means of a percentage.
If we analyze the company from the
perspective of the investment it
will have to make strong investments
in fixed assets and we will
have to resort to more financing,
to greater debt or capital
expansions to be able to finance
all that investment.
In this case, operations are
also very profitable.
The company is working very well
and has generated a lot of cash
for a period of time.
What can you do with that box?
If we analyze the financial perspective,
what we see is that what has been
taken advantage of is to amortise
a loan in an accelerated manner
with the aim of reducing
its leverage and risk.
Now we'll look at two companies
that in this case have a
problem with operations.
The operations are not being
profitable, there is no generating
treasury and they are
having real problems paying
suppliers, paying nomads,
paying debts and more.
If we analyze the company from the
perspective of investment, what
we see is that what it is doing
is selling fixed assets to be
able to sell that payment to suppliers.
Therefore, it is making a necessary
decision in the short term but
it may not be sustainable
in the long term.
Another option would be if, for
example, you do not have assets
to sell, it would be to resort
to additional financing that
is not always possible but imagine
that you give us an additional
loan because we have to
pay the salaries and we resort
to baccarat financing.
Well it is true that we can
solve the problem in the short term
but like putting the situation of
the company in the medium term
in this case because the indebtedness
is being excessive.
I hope you already have clear
what the three main
activities of a company
are and why having this
perspective will help
us to do a much deeper analysis
of any company.